Elaborate on Service Discovery troubleshooting (#11113)
nextcloud/documentation: admin_manual/issues/general_troubleshooting.rst

Some clients - especially on iOS/macOS - have problems finding the proper
sync URL, even when explicitly configured to use it.

However, there are also several techniques to allow clients to discover services provided by a server. One of these,
which is addressed in this section, is the discovery through *well known* URLs. Further remedies are described extensively
at the `Sabre DAV website <http://sabre.io/dav/service-discovery/>`_

These *well known* URLs are located under the web root driectory  of your webserver, whether or not your nextcloud

> installation is installed in the roo or a subfolder of your web server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
installation is installed in the root or a subfolder of your web server:
```

| ``https://example.com/.well-known/``
|

To check if these *well known* URLs are working correctly on your server, you can go to the ``Overview`` page of the
``Administrative Settings`` of your Nextcloud installation, e.g. at ``https://example.com/settings/admin/overview``
and see if there is any warning  shown under the ``Security & setup warnings`` section. Additionlly, the specific sections

> below show how to verify the correct configuration with from a linux command-line (see *Tip* boxes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
below show how to verify the correct configuration from a linux command-line (see *Tip* boxes).
```

.. Tip::
   To check if your server is set up correctly, use the following command with your correct URL for ``YOUR_SERVER``:

   **CalDAV** ::

      YOUR_SERVER=https://example.com
      SERVICE=caldav
      curl -Sv --fail -o /dev/null --GET $YOUR_SERVER/.well-known/$SERVICE 2>&1 \
       | grep -iE '^(> get|< (HTTP/|location))'

   This should return an output similar to this::

         > GET /.well-known/carddav HTTP/2
         < HTTP/2 301
         < location: https://example.com/remote.php/dav/

   **CardDav** ::

         YOUR_SERVER=https://example.com
         SERVICE=carddav
         curl -Sv --fail -o /dev/null --GET $YOUR_SERVER/.well-known/$SERVICE 2>&1 \
          | grep -iE '^(> get|< (HTTP/|location))'

   This should return an output similar to this::

         > GET /.well-known/carddav HTTP/2
         < HTTP/2 301
         < location: https://example.com/remote.php/dav/

.. _service-discovery-webfinger-and-nodeinfo-label:

WEBFINGER and NODEINFO (and others)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Since version 21 of Nextcloud server, these two endpoints

| ``https://example.com/.well-known/webfinger``
| ``https://example.com/.well-known/nodeinfo``

> need to be redirected to the ``index.php`` like so:

Reviewer 2: As explained above, this is misleading because it's different from our default implementation. webfinger and nodeinfo however are fine with a chain of redirects.

         > GET /.well-known/nodeinfo HTTP/2
         < HTTP/2 302
         < location: https://example.com/index.php/.well-known/nodeinfo
         > GET /index.php/.well-known/nodeinfo HTTP/2
         < HTTP/2 200
         < x-nextcloud-well-known: 1

.. _service-discovery-apache-configuration-label:

Apache Web Server Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The configuration differs depending on whether your Nextcloud instance is running in your Web server's root or in a subfolder.

Running Nextcloud in the webroot folder
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
- The :file:`.htaccess` file shipped with Nextcloud should do this work for you.
- You need to make sure that your Web server is using this file.
- Additionally, you need the mod_rewrite Apache
   module installed and ``AllowOverride All`` set in your :file:`apache2.conf`
   or vHost-file to process these redirects.

Running Nextcloud in a subfolder called ``nextcloud``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

- Create or edit the :file:`.htaccess` file within the document root of your Web server and add the following lines::

    <IfModule mod_rewrite.c>
      RewriteEngine on

>       RewriteRule ^/\.well-known/carddav /nextcloud/remote.php/dav [R=301,L]

Author: Sure. They have sneaked in by mistake!

   files by dropping any number of leading slashes, but it does not
   do so for the use in its main configuration files.

.. _service-discovery-default-well-known-configuration-label:

Default handling of ``/.well-known/`` URLs by Nextcloud
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

> Since Nextcloud allows any app to register any service within the ``.well-known`` directory, you may want to redirect

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since Nextcloud allows apps to register a service within the ``.well-known`` directory, you may want to redirect
```

any request to this folder to Nextcloud.

.. warning::
   **Make sure you exclude** *well known* **services that are handled by other
   applications,** e.g. you should *not* redirect ``/.well-known/acme-challenge`` or ``/.well-known/pki-validation/`` as they
   are used for automated SSL certificate deployment.

Also, make sure to add your ``/nextcloud/subfolder``, if your Nextcloud instance is not running in the webroot.

::

>     <IfModule mod_rewrite.c>

Reviewer 2: This configuration is done by our `.htaccess` file. 
We should not duplicate it here without a good reason.

Author: That's why I mentioned `# the standard redirection rules for Nextcloud`.

How about this:

```
      RewriteEngine on
      # the standard redirection rules for Nextcloud. They are already in your .htaccess file and are here just for reference
      # RewriteRule ^/\.well-known/carddav /remote.php/dav [R=301,L]
      # RewriteRule ^/\.well-known/caldav /remote.php/dav [R=301,L]
      # RewriteRule ^/\.well-known/webfinger /index.php/.well-known/webfinger [R=301,L]
      # RewriteRule ^/\.well-known/nodeinfo /index.php/.well-known/nodeinfo [R=301,L]
      ...
```

Also note, that I've left the two redirects for `webfinger` and `nodeinfo` as they are configured with a 301 permanent redirect, while the general rule below uses a 302 redirect for the reason indicated in the example's comment.

Reviewer 2: I'm not a fan. At worst, it's outdated in a few weeks. 
Please remove the actual rewrite rules. 
Feel free to add a link to our htaccess file.

      RewriteEngine on
      # the standard redirection rules for Nextcloud
      RewriteRule ^/\.well-known/carddav /remote.php/dav [R=301,L]
      RewriteRule ^/\.well-known/caldav /remote.php/dav [R=301,L]

>       RewriteRule ^/\.well-known/webfinger /index.php/.well-known/webfinger [R=301,L]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>       RewriteRule ^/\.well-known/nodeinfo /index.php/.well-known/nodeinfo [R=301,L]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

      # Redirect all other requests to /.well-known/ to index.php
      # exclude /.well-known/acme-challenge/
      RewriteCond "%{REQUEST_URI}" "!^/.well-known/acme-challenge/" [OR]
      # exclude /.well-known/pki-validation/
      RewriteCond "%{REQUEST_URI}" "!^/.well-known/pki-validation/" [OR]
      # add additional excludes, as required by your server setup
      # Use a temporary redirect here (302) in case an future service is handled outside of Nextcloud

>       RewriteRule ^/\.well-known/ /index.php/ [R=302,L]

Reviewer 2: I think R=302 is wrong. Apache2 should rewrite the request internally, and Nextcloud may respond with a redirect. But Apache2 should not respond with a 302 redirect to index.php.

Author: Well, then the same applies to the rules above which use `R=301` and are shipped with nextcloud ...

If that should be changed into an internal redirect, this should be subject to a different PR. Here, for the sake of consistency, `R=302` should be fine.

Reviewer 2: The CalDAV/CardDAV redirects are fine as `/remote.php/dav` is the final destination and the current behavior is a described in https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6764#section-5

Other requests should be handled by our WellKnownController. For the sake of consistency, the examples in our documentation should match our default implementation: https://github.com/nextcloud/server/blob/3b6a9cd23628464cd24da3d426764a8232124f33/.htaccess#L92 (rewrite, not a 302 redirect).
